Switching back over to our IDE, without changing anything else because
we have our properties set in our application.properties, and our
user.java has now been annotated, we can click the Play button or the
Run button next to our Tomcat configuration for our conference WAR.
And this will go through and actually create those tables in our
database for us.
If you watch these log files down below,
I'm going to leave this window open more so you can see it,
it'll go through and evaluate the database schema and see
that it has not created those yet.
So all of those logging statements that we put in
application.properties and show sql, all of that stuff. You'll
notice it says in here drop table if it exists,
drop this other table if it exists, so it creates a sequence and the user table.
Create those values inside of there. Establish any foreign
and primary key constraints that it needs to. And it's
creating those with the engine=InnoDB, which is the transactional engine.
You can do a non‑transactional engine for MySQL that's used for reporting.
So you really want to make sure that does say InnoDB, which we
specified that in our application.properties.
But that is a common mistake I see people make. Switch
back over to our MySQL Workbench.
And if we come inside of our schema and refresh it,
you'll notice that we now have our user table inside of here and
our columns inside of that table, our id, age, firstname, and lastname.